If you struggle with knowing how to plan out your day, or you often find yourself finishing out the workday  having gotten
much less done
than you originally planned… the
My Day
page is for you.
In the video above, you’ll get an in-depth, 26-minute guide that goes over each section of the My Day page, along with the daily planning process that it helps you practice.
Copy link to accordion section
Video Timestamps
00:00 – Introduction
01:27 – My Day Page Overview (Plan, Execute, Wrap Up)
02:47 – The Plan Step
03:42 – My Day Checkbox vs. Due Dates
04:38 – The Execute Step
06:02 – Ordering Tasks
08:32 – Process vs. Immersive Tasks
12:04 – Energy Level and Location Tagging
15:02 – Time Tracking Feature
18:20 – Building Execution Confidence
22:02 – The Wrap-Up Step
22:56 – Clear My Day Button
25:31 – Plan Tomorrow Section
The
Ultimate Brain Full Tour video
contains a much quicker, 6-minute overview of this page. Check it out if you’re in a hurry, but still want a video guide!
Ultimate Brain’s
My Day
page is, without a doubt, my favorite page in the template. It’s a rigid, opinionated dashboard that is designed from the ground up to help you:
Create a
realistic, focused
plan for the day
Put tasks in the ideal order
Actually carry out your plan
Know exactly what to work on next
To that end, it guides you through a 3-step process, which you’ll go through over the course of the whole day:
Plan
– look through your Task Manager and deliberately add tasks to a
blank, empty
daily plan
Execute
– put those tasks in the best order and do them (with optional time-tracking)
Wrap-Up
– review what you got done,
clear the Execute list,
adjust unfinished tasks as needed
If I was trying to manufacture a viral YouTube productivity video, perhaps I’d call this the PEW Process. And I may eventually do just that!
For now, I’ll simply state that using this process on a daily basis is
extremely effective.
If you’ve already gone through the Getting Started guide, adopting this process is likely the single best next step you can take if you’re looking to be more productive on a daily basis. It’ll bring a calm, focused confidence to your work.
The My Day page features a section for each of these steps. To successfully work through the process, simply move through each section.
Check out the video guide at the top of this page for a more in-depth look at the process!