Ultimate Brain has several Notion databases at its core. These databases store all of the data you add to your copy of the template, and the pages throughout Ultimate Brain primarily show you useful linked views of these databases.
All databases can be found at the
Databases & Components
page, which you’ll find at the bottom of the Ultimate Brain
Home Page
.
This section of the docs contains a complete reference for each database. On each database’s page, you’ll find a technical reference for its properties and a list of pages where it is used.
Copy link to heading
Ultimate Brain Databases
Database
Description
Tasks
Stores all tasks and task details, such as due date, status, Project, sub-tasks, recurring task details, etc.
Notes
Stores all notes and note details, such as Tags, URL, type, Favorite status, file/image attachments, etc.
Projects
Stores all projects and project details, such as status, related Tasks and Notes, related Tag (e.g. Area), target deadline, etc.
Work Sessions
Stores all work sessions related to specific tasks. This database enables time-tracking in Ultimate Brain.
Tags
Stores all tags, which are used for PARA organization (Areas and Resources). Can also be used for more general categorization of Notes (using Entity-type Tags). Stores tag details, such as type, projects, goals, notes, etc.
Goals
Stores all goals and goal details, such as target deadline, related Projects, progress, and achieved dates.
Milestones
Stores milestones and milestone details, such as related Goal, target deadline, date completed, etc.
People
Stores all people records and details, such as title, company, website, social media links, relationships, related Meeting Notes, etc.
Books
Stores all books and book details, such as author, page count, ISBN, related Genre, custom Shelves, ownership status, etc.
Reading Log
Stores reading log entries, pages read, and related Books.
Genres
Stores genres and related books.
Recipes
Stores recipes and recipe details, such as servings, prep time, cook time, Recipe Tags, etc.
Recipe Tags
Stores recipe tags (e.g. Mexican, New American, Entree, Side Dish) and related Recipes.
Meal Planner
Stores meal plans and related Recipes.
Copy link to heading
Database Relation Diagrams
In the diagram below, you can see a map of the databases in Ultimate Brain and its Relation properties.
Bi-directional arrows indicate Relation properties that have the
Show on Databases
option enabled, creating a reciprocol property in the target database that pairs with the current Relation property.
Uni-directional arrows indicate the opposite – a Relation property that points to another database. You’ll also notice that these arrows point directly to the database to which they connect, rather than an individual property.