Ultimate Brain ships with a lot of features by default, but you may still have use cases that it can’t handle right out of the box.
Luckily, it’s easy to
add new functionality
by creating your own custom databases and
integrating
them into Ultimate Brain’s default databases.
Copy link to heading
Example Project: Add a Companies Database
In the video tutorial below, I’ll show you exactly how to do that. In this example project, we’ll upgrade the Ultimate Brain’s CRM by creating a
Companies
database. When you’re finished, you’ll be able to:
Create pages for companies you’re working with (i.e. as a consultant)
Relate
Projects
and
People
to Companies
Here’s a condensed, text-based companion to the video tutorial.
Before making any changes, consider
backing up your template
to ensure you have an untampered version.
Start by
unlocking the databases
you’ll be working with. In this case, unlock both the
Projects
and
People
databases.
Create a new full-page database called
Companies
beneath the People database. I recommend choosing a red icon for it, as I use red icons for all databases in Ultimate Brain.
Next, create two Relation properties in the Companies database:
Create a
People
relation property, linking to the
People
database. Set it as a two-way relation and name the reverse property Company in the People database.
Create a
Projects
relation property, linking to the
Projects
database. Set it as a two-way relation and name the reverse property Company in the Projects database.
To make it easier to associate companies with projects, customize the Projects database layout:
Open any existing project and click the Customize button above the page title.
In the Layout Builder, add the Company property to the Relations group. Do this by clicking the Property Group, then clicking the Company Property and hitting Add to Layout. Afterwards, click the
•••
button in the new Company section’s box, go to
Advanced
, and click
Add (or Convert) to Relation Group.
Set the property to show as minimal.
Repeat this process for the People database to add the Company relation property to its layout.
Now, create a template for the Companies database:
In the Companies database, create a new template by clicking the blue ↓ button next to
New
, then clicking Create Template.
Add two sections: “Projects” and “People”.
For each section, create a List-type linked database view of the respective database.
Apply a filter to each view: “Company → Contains → New Page” (Replace “New Page” with the template’s name, if you named it.)
Customize the properties shown in each view as needed.
Set this template as the default for all views in the Companies database.
Finally, customize the layout of the Companies database pages:
Move the “Projects” and “People” relation properties to the Relations group or pin them to the top of the page.
Apply the changes to all pages.
Remember to lock the Projects and People databases again after making these changes.